---
layout: archive
title: ""
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
---

# Peer-reviewed publications
<b>Cheung, H. M.</b>, & Chu, J. E. (2023). <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41612-023-00470-8" target="_blank">Global increase in destructive potential of extratropical transition events in response to greenhouse warming</a>. npj Climate and Atmospheric Science, 6(1), 137.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>When tropical cyclones (TCs) move to the mid-latitudes, they oftentimes undergo extratropical transition (ET) by which they lose their symmetry and warm-core characteristics. Upon transforming into extratropical cyclones (ETCs), they tend to impact larger areas and thus larger populations. In light of the increased TC intensity due to global warming identified in previous studies, here we examine its effect on the frequency and destructiveness of ET events globally using a high-resolution fully coupled Earth System model (0.25° for atmosphere; 0.1° for ocean) prescribed with present-day, doubling, and quadrupling CO2 concentrations. Our findings indicate that ETCs originated from the tropics with higher destructiveness (indicated by integrated kinetic energy) become more frequent in response to greenhouse warming, although the number of ET events does not change significantly. The key factor in the change in the destructiveness of ETCs is the increase in wind speed and the high-wind area at ET. Despite the uncertainty in the Northern Hemisphere, our results underscore the necessity for climate resilience in the mid-latitudes against global warming.</sub>
</details>
<br>
<b>Cheung, H. M.</b>, Ho, C. H., & Chang, M. (2022). <a href="https://journals.ametsoc.org/view/journals/aies/1/4/AIES-D-21-0003.1.xml" target="_blank">Hybrid neural network models for postprocessing medium-range forecasts of tropical cyclone tracks over the western North Pacific</a>. Artificial Intelligence for the Earth Systems, 1(4), e210003.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>Tropical cyclone (TC) track forecasts derived from dynamical models inherit their errors. In this study, a neural network (NN) algorithm was proposed for postprocessing TC tracks predicted by the Global Ensemble Forecast System (GEFS) for lead times of 2, 4, 5, and 6 days over the western North Pacific. The hybrid NN is a combination of three NN classes: 1) convolutional NN that extracts spatial features from GEFS fields; 2) multilayer perceptron, which processes TC positions predicted by GEFS; and 3) recurrent NN that handles information from previous time steps. A dataset of 204 TCs (6744 samples), which were formed from 1985 to 2019 (June–October) and survived for at least six days, was separated into various track patterns. TCs in each track pattern were distributed uniformly to validation and test dataset, in which each contained 10% TCs of the entire dataset, and the remaining 80% were allocated to the training dataset. Two NN architectures were developed, with and without a shortcut connection. Feature selection and hyperparameter tuning were performed to improve model performance. The results present that mean track error and dispersion could be reduced, particularly with the shortcut connection, which also corrected the systematic speed and direction bias of GEFS. Although a reduction in mean track error was not achieved by the NNs for every forecast lead time, improvement can be foreseen upon calibration for reducing overfitting, and the performance encourages further development in the present application.</sub>
</details>
<br>
Lam, Y. F., & <b>Cheung, H. M.</b> (2022). <a href="https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4433/13/5/723" target="_blank">Investigation of Policy Relevant Background (PRB) Ozone in East Asia</a>. Atmosphere, 13(5), 723.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>The concept of Policy Relevant Background (PRB) ozone has emerged in recent years to address the air quality baseline on the theoretical limits of air pollution controls. In this study, the influence of Long-range Transport (LRT) of air pollutants from North America and the effect of Stratosphere-Troposphere Transport (STT) on PRB ozone was investigated using GEOS-Chem coupled WRF-CMAQ modelling system. Four distinct seasons in 2006 were simulated to understand better the seasonal and geographical impacts of these externalities on PRB ozone over East Asia (EA). Overall, the LRT impact from North America has been found to be ~0.54 ppbv, while the maximum impacts were found at the mountain stations with values of 2.3 ppbv, 3.3 ppbv, 2.3 ppbv, and 3.0 ppbv for January, April, July, and October, respectively. In terms of PRB ozone, the effect of STT has enhanced the surface background ozone by ~3.0 ppbv, with a maximum impact of 7.8 ppbv found in the northeastern part of East Asia (near Korea and Japan). Springtime (i.e., April) has the most vital STT signals caused by relatively cold weather and unstable atmospheric condition resulting from the transition of the monsoon season. The simulated PRB ozone based on the mean values of the maximum daily 8-h average (MDA8) is 53 ppbv for spring (April) and 22 ppbv for summer (July). Up to ~1.0 ppbv and ~2.2 ppbv of MDA8 ozone were attributed to LRT and STT, respectively. Among the selected cities, Beijing and Guangzhou have received the most substantial anthropogenic enhancement in MDA8 ozone in summer, ranging from 40.0 ppbv to 56.0 ppbv.</sub>
</details>
<br>
<b>Cheung, H. M.</b>, Ho, C. H., Chang, M., Kim, D., Kim, J., & Choi, W. (2021). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1175/WAF-D-20-0102.1" target="_blank">Development of a track-pattern-based medium-range tropical cyclone forecasting system for the western North Pacific</a>. Weather and Forecasting, 36(4), 1505-1518.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>Despite tremendous advancements in dynamical models for weather forecasting, statistical models continue to offer various possibilities for tropical cyclone (TC) track forecasting. Herein, a track-pattern-based approach was developed to predict a TC track for a lead time of 6–8 days over the western North Pacific (WNP), utilizing historical tracks in conjunction with dynamical forecasts. It is composed of four main steps: 1) clustering historical tracks similar to that of an operational 5-day forecast in their early phase into track patterns, and calculating the daily mean environmental fields (500-hPa geopotential height and steering flow) associated with each track; 2) deriving the two environmental variables forecasted by dynamical models; 3) evaluating pattern correlation coefficients between the two environmental fields from step 1 and those from dynamical model for a lead times of 6–8 days; and 4) producing the final track forecast based on relative frequency maps obtained from the historical tracks in step 1 and the pattern correlation coefficients obtained from step 3. TCs that formed in the WNP and lasted for at least 7 days, during the 9-yr period 2011–19 were selected to verify the resulting track-pattern-based forecasts. In addition to the performance comparable to dynamical models under certain conditions, the track-pattern-based model is inexpensive, and can consistently produce forecasts over large latitudinal or longitudinal ranges. Machine learning techniques can be implemented to incorporate nonlinearity in the present model for improving medium-range track forecasts.</sub>
</details>
<br>
<b>Cheung, H. M.</b>, Ho, C. H., Jhun, J. G., Park, D. S. R., & Yang, S. (2018). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s00382-017-4014-1" target+"_blank">Tropical cyclone signals on rainfall distribution during strong vs. weak Changma/Baiu years</a>. Climate Dynamics, 51, 2311-2320.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>The spatiotemporal distribution of summer rainfall is diverse in origin, namely tropical cyclones (TCs) and quasi-stationary monsoon frontal systems. Here, the contribution of TCs to summer rainfall is singled out for the years of strong vs. weak Changma/Baiu, which is represented by the leading mode of the variability in total rainfall over East Asia (20°–45°N, 105°–150°E) during the summers (July and August) of 1979–2014. Analyzing rain gauge based rainfall and TC best track data indicates that the difference in TC-induced rainfall between strong and weak Changma/Baiu years exhibits distinctive subseasonal evolution from that in non-TC-induced rainfall. A deficit in TC-induced rainfall is mainly observed over eastern China and Taiwan, where a surplus in non-TC-induced rainfall exists. This opposite relationship between the difference in TC-induced and non-TC-induced rainfalls, which is associated with westward extensions of the subtropical high and associated westerlies over the East China Sea, implies that the variations of TC-induced rainfall and non-TC-induced rainfall partly offset each other in certain regions of East Asia. For heavy rainfall (> 50 mm day−1), similar features are observed in the whole East Asia region. The variability of total heavy rainfall is dominated by non-TC-induced rainfall, except for the Yangtze River Valley where the variability of TC-induced rainfall cancels out that of non-TC-induced rainfall.</sub>
</details>
<br>
Lam, Y. F., <b>Cheung, H. M.</b>, & Ying, C. C. (2018). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.08.100" target="_blank">Impact of tropical cyclone track change on regional air quality</a>. Science of the Total Environment, 610, 1347-1355.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>There has been an increase in tropical cyclones (TCs) in the western North Pacific (WNP) that traverse with a northward recurving track towards East Asia and a decrease in TC tracks entering the South China Sea (SCS) in the past few decades. To investigate the potential impact of the prevailing TC track change on Hong Kong air quality, an analysis has been carried out based on historical data (1991 to 2010) of TC tracks and air quality. Compared to TCs in other regions, TCs in the vicinity of Taiwan (Region 2, R2) have the greatest impact on Hong Kong air quality due to regional transport of air pollutants from the highly industrialized Pearl River Delta (PRD). In the last twenty years, the number of days with TCs in R2 (May to October) has increased by 45% from 111 days in the period 1991–2000 to 161 days in 2001–2010, during which there was an increase in yearly TC-related pollution episodes of approximately 3 episodes per year in Hong Kong. The enhancement of mean O3 concentration due to TCs in R2 is reported as 82% (~ 50.8 μg/m3 at a rural station) and 58% (~ 16.8 μg/m3 at an urban station) higher than the summer averages. A similar enhancement is also observed for PM10 (called RSP) and SO2 with an average of 70% (i.e., 22.2 μg/m3) and 100% (i.e., 15.2 μg/m3) increases, respectively. Overall, the 20 years of historical data show that the O3 concentrations on the TC-affected days are increasing at the estimated rates of 0.5 μg/m3 and 2.6 μg/m3 per year, respectively, in the urban and remote areas, which are significantly higher than the increase of 0.3 μg/m3 and 0.4 μg/m3 per year in the average summer concentrations.</sub>
</details>
<br>
Chan, K. L., Hartl, A., Lam, Y. F., Xie, P. H., Liu, W. Q., <b>Cheung, H. M.</b>, ... & Wenig, M. O. (2015). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosenv.2015.08.041" target="_blank">Observations of tropospheric NO2 using ground based MAX-DOAS and OMI measurements during the Shanghai World Expo 2010</a>. Atmospheric Environment, 119, 45-58. 
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>During the Shanghai World Expo 2010 ground based Multi-Axis Differential Optical Absorption Spectroscopy (MAX-DOAS) measurements of tropospheric nitrogen dioxide (NO2) were performed to investigate the effects of emission control measures during that time. In this study we measured NO2 using four identical MAX-DOAS instruments in Shanghai from April 2009 to November 2010. We combined our MAX-DOAS data, the Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) satellite observations and meteorological information from the National Centers for Environmental Prediction final reanalysis data (NCEP FNL) in order to investigate the spatial distribution of NO2 over Shanghai and the effects of emission control measures during the Expo. In general, the comparison of cloud screened MAX-DOAS data and OMI observations are in good correlation (Pearson correlation coefficient between 0.67 and 0.93 for the four measurement stations). In addition, we compared the MAX-DOAS and OMI NO2 data from the Shanghai Expo in 2010 to the same time of the year in 2009. The results show that the NO2 columns were reduced up to ∼ 30% in the area of central Shanghai during the Expo but no significant reduction of NO2 levels was found in the nearby industrial area. The overall NO2 reduction from May, July and September 2010 ranged from 7.5% to 14.5%, which is comparable to observations in previous studies. Our results revealed that the NO2 reduction was mainly achieved by emission control policies on transportation sources in the city rather than the controls from nearby provinces.</sub>
</details>
<br>
Kuhlmann, G., Lam, Y. F., <b>Cheung, H. M.</b>, Hartl, A., Fung, J. C. H., Chan, P. W., & Wenig, M. O. (2015). <a href="https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-15-5627-2015" target="_blank">Development of a custom OMI NO 2 data product for evaluating biases in a regional chemistry transport model</a>. Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics, 15(10), 5627-5644.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>In this paper, we present the custom Hong Kong NO2 retrieval (HKOMI) for the Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) on board the Aura satellite which was used to evaluate a high-resolution chemistry transport model (CTM) (3 km × 3 km spatial resolution). The atmospheric chemistry transport was modelled in the Pearl River Delta (PRD) region in southern China by the Models-3 Community Multiscale Air Quality (CMAQ) modelling system from October 2006 to January 2007. In the HKOMI NO2 retrieval, tropospheric air mass factors (AMFs) were recalculated using high-resolution ancillary parameters of surface reflectance, a priori NO2 and aerosol profiles, of which the latter two were taken from the CMAQ simulation. We tested the influence of the ancillary parameters on the data product using four different aerosol parametrizations. Ground-level measurements by the PRD Regional Air Quality Monitoring (RAQM) network were used as additional independent measurements.

The HKOMI retrieval increases estimated tropospheric NO2 vertical column densities (VCD) by (+31 ± 38)%, when compared to NASA's standard product (OMNO2-SP), and improves the normalized mean bias (NMB) between satellite and ground observations by 26 percentage points from −41 to −15%. The individual influences of the parameters are (+11.4 ± 13.4)% for NO2 profiles, (+11.0 ± 20.9)% for surface reflectance and (+6.0 ± 8.4)% for the best aerosol parametrization. The correlation coefficient r is low between ground and satellite observations (r = 0.35). The low r and the remaining NMB can be explained by the low model performance and the expected differences when comparing point measurements with area-averaged satellite observations.
The correlation between CMAQ and the RAQM network is low (r ≈ 0.3) and the model underestimates the NO2 concentrations in the northwestern model domain (Foshan and Guangzhou). We compared the CMAQ NO2 time series of the two main plumes with our best OMI NO2 data set (HKOMI-4). The model overestimates the NO2 VCDs by about 15% in Hong Kong and Shenzhen, while the correlation coefficient is satisfactory (r = 0.56). In Foshan and Guangzhou, the correlation is low (r = 0.37) and the model underestimates the VCDs strongly (NMB = −40%). In addition, we estimated that the OMI VCDs are also underestimated by about 10 to 20% in Foshan and Guangzhou because of the influence of the model parameters on the AMFs.
In this study, we demonstrate that the HKOMI NO2 retrieval reduces the bias of the satellite observations and how the data set can be used to study the magnitude of NO2 concentrations in a regional model at high spatial resolution of 3 × 3 km2. The low bias was achieved with recalculated AMFs using updated surface reflectance, aerosol profiles and NO2 profiles. Since unbiased concentrations are important, for example, in air pollution studies, the results of this paper can be very helpful in future model evaluation studies.</sub>
</details>
<br>
Kuhlmann, G., Hartl, A., <b>Cheung, H. M.</b>, Lam, Y. F., & Wenig, M. O. (2014). <a href="https://doi.org/10.5194/amt-7-451-2014" target="_blank">A novel gridding algorithm to create regional trace gas maps from satellite observations</a>. Atmospheric Measurement Techniques, 7(2), 451-467.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<sub>The recent increase in spatial resolution for satellite instruments has made it feasible to study distributions of trace gas column densities on a regional scale. For this application a new gridding algorithm was developed to map measurements from the instrument's frame of reference (level 2) onto a longitude–latitude grid (level 3). The algorithm is designed for the Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) and can easily be employed for similar instruments – for example, the upcoming TROPOspheric Monitoring Instrument (TROPOMI). Trace gas distributions are reconstructed by a continuous parabolic spline surface. The algorithm explicitly considers the spatially varying sensitivity of the sensor resulting from the instrument function. At the swath edge, the inverse problem of computing the spline coefficients is very sensitive to measurement errors and is regularised by a second-order difference matrix. Since this regularisation corresponds to the penalty term for smoothing splines, it similarly attenuates the effect of measurement noise over the entire swath width. Monte Carlo simulations are conducted to study the performance of the algorithm for different distributions of trace gas column densities. The optimal weight of the penalty term is found to be proportional to the measurement uncertainty and the width of the instrument function. A comparison with an established gridding algorithm shows improved performance for small to moderate measurement errors due to better parametrisation of the distribution. The resulting maps are smoother and extreme values are more accurately reconstructed. The performance improvement is further illustrated with high-resolution distributions obtained from a regional chemistry model. The new algorithm is applied to tropospheric NO2 column densities measured by OMI. Examples of regional NO2 maps are shown for densely populated areas in China, Europe and the United States of America. This work demonstrates that the newly developed gridding algorithm improves regional trace gas maps; its application could be very helpful for the study of satellite-derived trace gas distributions.</sub>
</details>
