# Peer-reviewed publications
<br>
Cheung, H. M., & Chu, J. E. (2023). Global increase in destructive potential of extratropical transition events in response to greenhouse warming. npj Climate and Atmospheric Science, 6(1), 137.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<br>
When tropical cyclones (TCs) move to the mid-latitudes, they oftentimes undergo extratropical transition (ET) by which they lose their symmetry and warm-core characteristics. Upon transforming into extratropical cyclones (ETCs), they tend to impact larger areas and thus larger populations. In light of the increased TC intensity due to global warming identified in previous studies, here we examine its effect on the frequency and destructiveness of ET events globally using a high-resolution fully coupled Earth System model (0.25° for atmosphere; 0.1° for ocean) prescribed with present-day, doubling, and quadrupling CO2 concentrations. Our findings indicate that ETCs originated from the tropics with higher destructiveness (indicated by integrated kinetic energy) become more frequent in response to greenhouse warming, although the number of ET events does not change significantly. The key factor in the change in the destructiveness of ETCs is the increase in wind speed and the high-wind area at ET. Despite the uncertainty in the Northern Hemisphere, our results underscore the necessity for climate resilience in the mid-latitudes against global warming.
</details>
<br>
Cheung, H. M., Ho, C. H., & Chang, M. (2022). Hybrid neural network models for postprocessing medium-range forecasts of tropical cyclone tracks over the western North Pacific. Artificial Intelligence for the Earth Systems, 1(4), e210003.
<details>
<summary>Abstract</summary>
<br>
Tropical cyclone (TC) track forecasts derived from dynamical models inherit their errors. In this study, a neural network (NN) algorithm was proposed for postprocessing TC tracks predicted by the Global Ensemble Forecast System (GEFS) for lead times of 2, 4, 5, and 6 days over the western North Pacific. The hybrid NN is a combination of three NN classes: 1) convolutional NN that extracts spatial features from GEFS fields; 2) multilayer perceptron, which processes TC positions predicted by GEFS; and 3) recurrent NN that handles information from previous time steps. A dataset of 204 TCs (6744 samples), which were formed from 1985 to 2019 (June–October) and survived for at least six days, was separated into various track patterns. TCs in each track pattern were distributed uniformly to validation and test dataset, in which each contained 10% TCs of the entire dataset, and the remaining 80% were allocated to the training dataset. Two NN architectures were developed, with and without a shortcut connection. Feature selection and hyperparameter tuning were performed to improve model performance. The results present that mean track error and dispersion could be reduced, particularly with the shortcut connection, which also corrected the systematic speed and direction bias of GEFS. Although a reduction in mean track error was not achieved by the NNs for every forecast lead time, improvement can be foreseen upon calibration for reducing overfitting, and the performance encourages further development in the present application.
</details>
